Module 1: Introduction to World Wide Web, Markup Languages, Style sheet Languages
Client, Server, Communication, Protocols, Ports, Client-Server Architectures, Internet, World
Wide Web, HTTP, HTTP Status Codes, Web Clients/Browsers, and Web Servers.
Experiments:
1. Describe client, server, communication, ports, protocols, HTTP, browsers and web servers.
Distinguish between client and server, Internet, WWW, and client-server architectures.
2. Get header information of a web page using browser’s developer mode. Installation of web
server.
3. Design and develop web pages using fundamental HTML elements, such as head, title,
body, header, comment, etc. Also using HTML Formatting elements, such as abbr, address,
etc
4. Design and develop web pages that embed images and client-side maps, audio and video
and links, lists and tables, embed YouTube videos, graphics using canvas and SVG.
5. Design and develop web pages with styles, semantics and layouts, such as header, footer,
section, data, div, etc. also using HTML APIs, web components.
6. Design and develop web pages by applying CSS text formatting properties, such as Text
Alignment, Text Decoration, Text Transformation, Text Spacing, Text Shadow, Font
Family, Font Style, Font Size, etc. Also apply CSS colors and backgrounds properties, such
as colour, RGB, HEX, HSL values, background image, background color, etc.
7. Design and develop web pages by applying CSS borders and margin properties, such as
Border Width, Border Color, Margins, etc. Also apply CSS floating, overflow and
positioning properties, such as float, overflow, position, etc.
8. Design and develop web pages by applying CSS page layout properties, such as display,
padding, height, width, max-width, align, etc.
9. Design and develop web pages by applying CSS properties to links, lists and tables.
10. Design and develop web pages by using CSS navigation bars and dropdowns.
11. Design and develop web pages by using CSS Selectors.
12. Design and develop web pages by using inline CSS, internal CSS and external CSS.

Module 2: Client-side Programming and Server-side Programming
JavaScript: Introduction to JavaScript, Basic Syntax, Variables, Data Types, Statements,
Operators, Conditions, Loops, Functions, Arrays, Objects, Form Validation, DOM, JavaScript
Objects, JavaScript Functions, Asynchronous JavaScript and any one of the state-of-the-art
JavaScript libraries. Introduction to Server-side Programming, Installation of Web and database
Server, Process user input, Efficient storage and delivery of information to and from databases,
File handling and controlled access to the content, store session/state information, cookies,
notifications and communication.
Note:
1. One of the following server-side scripting languages can be used for the implementation:
PHP, Node.js, or other state-of-art scripting languages.
2. One of the following databases can be used for data storage and retrieval: MySQL,
MongoDB, Firebase or other state-of-art databases.
Experiments:
1. Implement a script using JavaScript that changes HTML content, HTML attributes hides
and show HTML elements, HTML output and window alert box for web pages.
2. Implement a script using JavaScript that shows use of JavaScript variables, data types and
statements for web pages.
3. Implement a script using JavaScript that shows use of JavaScript Arithmetic, Assignment
and String Concatenation operations for web pages.
4. Implement a script using JavaScript that shows use of JavaScript conditionals and loops for
web pages.
5. Implement a script using JavaScript that shows use of JavaScript Functions, Arrays, and
Objects for web pages.
6. Implement a script using JavaScript that shows use of Asynchronous JavaScript.
7. Design and develop web pages and insert JavaScript in head tag, body tag, external file,
external URL and external folder.
8. Implement a script using JavaScript library.
9. Implement basic functionalities of server-side scripting language, such as data types,
operators, conditionals, and loops.
10. Implement basic functionalities of server-side scripting language, such as objects, arrays,
and functions.
11. Implement web page form validations using server-side scripting language.
12. Implement file handling using server-side scripting language.
13. Implement cookies using server-side scripting language.
14. Implement sessions using server-side scripting language.
15. Implement CRUD operations on database using server-side scripting language. 

Module 3: Web Application Framework/Library
State-of-the-art Front-End Framework library: One of the following technologies will be
considered: Angular, React.js or other state-of-the-art front-end development
framework/library.
Experiments:
1. Installing framework and configuring Integrated Development Environment (IDE), and its
dependencies.
2. Creating workspace, project and setting up the necessary environment.
3. Implementing the fundamental syntaxes and components of the framework.
4. Building and testing the application.
5. Deploying the application.
6. Implementing the fundamental syntaxes and components of the framework. 

Module 4: Server-side Development Framework/Library Part I
State-of-the-art server-side Technology: Ruby on Rails, Flask or other state-of-the-art back-end
development framework/library.
Experiments:
1. Installing framework and configuring Integrated Development Environment (IDE), and its
dependencies.
2. Creating workspace, project and setting up the necessary environment.
3. Implementing the fundamental syntaxes and components of the framework.
4. Implementing server-side validations and authentication for web application.
5. Implementing CRUD operations for web application.
6. Building and testing the application.
7. Deploying the application.

Module 5: Server-side Development Framework/Library Part II
Django or another state-of-the-art framework/library.
Experiments:
1. Installing framework and configuring Integrated Development Environment (IDE), and its
dependencies.
2. Creating workspace, project and setting up the necessary environment.
3. Implementing the fundamental syntaxes and components of the framework.
4. Implementing server-side validations and authentication for web application.
5. Implementing CRUD operations for web application.
6. Building and testing the application.
7. Deploying the application

Module 6: Hosting Web Applications, Web Security
Building web application and Hosting web application.
Web Security: Introduction, types of web threats, and prevention measures.
Experiments:
1. Choosing a hosting server and selecting a plan for web hosting.
2. Choosing and configuring DNS address.
3. Uploading, configuring and running the website over the internet. 